Okay,
guys,
welcome to this lecture.
No,
this lecture is going to be dedicated to the with end with procedure,
which is this area just here that we stepped through in the last lecture.
Now won't do just so we can see all of the code in one window.
I'm just gonna delete some of these remarks that's completely redundant as completely
redundant.
I'm just gonna put a few spaces in there.
Let's do that.
They go so we could see all the code that we've written so far,
all in the one window.
Now the thing to notice with with an end with is that we have the format selection,
adult interior.
Then we have another dot on the next line,
says Doc Patton,
Excel salad.
Then we have another dot says Paton.
Color index equals X l automatic,
and we also have dot color onda 65535 dot tintin shade zero dot patent Tinton Shade.
Now,
the reason that you would want to use a with end with function is if you're gonna perform
or than one action on the same cell.
Now,
the question is,
which cell are you acting upon on that clue comes just here.
So the first line of code that we have is this selection where we use the pay special on
were automatically highlighted all the formulas that resulted in a number on selected them
.
And now those that particular area has bean selected.
That is,
they've been highlighted like this.
Onda cross.
Not not the bottom line that what we can do now those are selected while we have that
selection active that is selected with the selection,
which is everything we just highlighted here.
We can know that Make a change to the adults interior value off that selection now,
not only can we make a change the dot interior,
but the interior itself has further properties on those properties.
Will enough our pattern pattern core index cola,
Tintin shade,
pattern,
tint and shade.
Okay,
now,
what we're gonna do is do this in longhand just so you can understand what it does.
And you'll see why the with end with is an effective way of dealing with multiple changes
to the same cell.
So I'm gonna start with exactly the same statement with selection.
I'm gonna say dot in theory or which is exactly what it says here.
Then I'm going to say adult,
and then I'm going to say pattern,
and I'm just going to copy the values in there.
So I'm going to say X l solid.
No.
Notice that I have selection with a little less interior with a little eye pattern with a
little p and X l solid all in lower case.
But if you look here within the with end with,
you'll notice that selection is capital s.
I is capital.
I p is capital P on this says x l Capital s when I click tough this line this change to
capital s capital I Capital P on Excel solid was in exactly the same cases.
It appeared down here.
So there's our first instruction selection dot interior dot pattern equals x.
L solid.
Now what I'm gonna do is just copy that a few times in just a copy and enter.
Enter.
Enter on.
What I want to do is also have the pattern color in next.
I'm just gonna copy that on pace over here.
I also want tohave the what was the next one color showing a copy color and I'm gonna pace
that over here I'm gonna have Tintin shade copy.
And on the pace that over here on,
I'm gonna have pattern tint and shade.
Copy on Pace that over here.
So now you can see what we actually have is five lines of code each.
That does.
Waas.
What?
What this with end with does all with one selection.
So I'm just going to step through that code first long and execute this code so we can
remove all the highlights.
I'm just going to hit play and they go to conceal that.
Highlighting has been removed and they were going to step through this code one line.
It's a time just like we did in the last lecture.
So clicking the code press F eight selection special that's going to select all the cells
we want to manipulate.
Now,
with that selection,
I'm know,
going to say excel solid.
So notice what happens in this window.
You can see that the line in between the cells,
this has disappeared so it looks like excel solid actually does perform a function.
So let's just say does do something.
Okay,
so now we know that that particular line does something.
Now let's execute this line that says Paton color index equals X l automatic.
So pay attention to what's going on over here.
Press F eight.
Andi doesn't appear to do anything,
so it doesn't appear to do anything.
Okay,
we're gonna test this shortly.
So now we're on selection dot Interior Dark color equals 65535 No,
I remember from the last time we executed this line by line that changed all the cells to
yellow.
So let's just hit F eight.
Boom on may go.
That one turn soul shall live tens cells yellow on the next one was Tintin Shade equals
zero.
So pay attention to what's going on here.
Nothing appears to have happened,
so let's just copy that comment a copy Andi paste so that it doesn't appear to do much on
then last one.
Let's just scroll back about selection.
Interior pattern,
tint and shade equals zero Selects just F eight through that and that didn't look like it
did anything either.
So let's just paste that comment in there.
Okay,
So now we can see we have achieved exactly what we achieved with the end with with five
individual lines of code,
but by doing that.
We did learn something interesting.
We saw what had an effect on what didn't have an effect.
So Patton excel solid,
does something.
So I'm just gonna comment that and say good,
because that does something.
Color index equals X l automatic didn't look like it did anything.
So what I'm going to do with this line is ram it out by just adding an apostrophe on that
now becomes when I click off green because it's now a comment and no line of excusable code
.
Now,
Cullum absolutely did something.
I'm just contemporary and saying that was good.
Onda also Tintin shade didn't appear to do much.
So I'm gonna realm that by hitting on the posh free And when I come off the line,
you'll notice it turns green Onda pattern Tintin shade also didn't appear to do anything so
again I'm gonna rim that out by hitting an apostrophe one I click off that will go green.
So now I am going to.
In fact,
I'm just gonna ramel of those from there will delete them shortly.
So just stick in a pottery in front of them and that means they're non execute herbal code
right.
So let's clear our format in by run in this macron,
they go way back to where we were Never.
Let's step through this and see what happens.
So I'm hitting F eight that selected all of my cells.
I am going to work with that selection.
Say I am working on the dot interior.
I'm going to use excel solid and notice what happens in this sheet.
Yep.
Those little lines in between the cells have disappeared.
I'm gonna choose color 65535 That delicious yellow f right end with on a select 016 or 16
So that looks like it has done exactly the same thing that it did before.
But this time we have 123 less lines of code executing.
So let me just pit play because it was still on in sub.
So they go,
the code is finished executing.
So now what we can do is we can get rid of the rubbish.
So that little demonstration we can hit delete.
We know that Patton index collapse doesn't do anything so we can delete that and we know
that Tintin shade on Patton Tintin shade also do nothing,
which we actually have a clue.
If we look at the clear formatting because Tinton shade equal zero patent tint and shade
equal zero are exactly the same values whether we call it in the formulas or be removed the
color from the formulas.
So it would be a safe bet to say,
like,
see if they If these values are exactly the same as these values and this colors it in and
this uncle is it,
we can probably safely delete these two lines too.
Oops.
I think I deleted too many lines.
There s so we should end up with just one delete on delete.
Okay,
so let's go ahead and delete those Onda.
Let's test this code just to make sure that by deleting those,
we still get the result we want.
So it's hit play.
Boom,
they go.
All the calls have been removed.
So it looks like after all of that,
what we actually only needed was a single line of code.
So what we can do with this particular line of code is we don't actually need a with
because we're only doing one thing.
So what we actually wanted to say with the selection cell Select selection dot Interior Doc
Patton equals X l non.
So I'm just going to come here.
I'm gonna hit,
delete.
I'm gonna come to the end.
I'm gonna hit Chile,
which is gonna bring that line up one.
I'm just gonna move down.
That will screw.
Gee,
it's all over,
And I'm just gonna back space and delete that end with So now we're down to three lines of
code in this particular format in this particular function.
So here,
we're going to execute this code.
I'm just gonna hit play.
I'm not going to step through it.
Bang,
they go.
All the cells are highlighted in white or highlighted in yellow.
And now I'm gonna hit,
play and execute this code on who we Eman invalid or unqualified reference.
So let's click.
OK,
and have look what happened.
Now we have a space after interior and you'll notice here that we have no space,
no space or here we have selection dot immediately special cells,
close brackets immediately dot immediately select.
So let's just delete that space and let's try running that again.
They go on That worked perfectly.
So whenever you have different properties off each of these words.
You can't have a space between them.
It literally says selection dot interior adult pattern equals X l numb so we can run this
code to cover them in on.
We can run this code to uncle of them.
Now,
we have greatly optimized the code here by taking out two or three or for whatever it waas
lines of code.
Which means if we had eight lines of code and we now have four lines of code,
it's gonna execute twice as quickly on That's the difference between making ugly code that
still works a more elegant code that only has what it needs.
Okay,
now,
in the next lecture,
we're gonna have a look at further refining this one down here because we can make it even
mawr efficient.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture.